Upgrade_to_Pro.md, before:

# 🚀 Railway Upgrade Guide: Skeleton to Pro

This guide outlines the complete path from a zero-setup deployment to a professional enterprise platform. You will start with the free **Launchpad (Skeleton)** edition and upgrade to the **Advanced Pro Version**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Following this specific sequence ensures your database stays connected, and your first deployment succeeds without environment errors.

---

## ⚡ 1. Initial Deployment (Free Skeleton)

To get started, deploy the base architecture directly to Railway with a single click. This creates your database, Redis, and API structure.

1.  **Click the button below:**
    
    [![Deploy on Railway](https://railway.com/button.svg)](https://railway.com/deploy/nodejs-multimodal-rag-starter?referralCode=2psx_t&utm_medium=integration&utm_source=template&utm_campaign=generic)

2.  Click **"Deploy Now"** on the Railway template landing page.
3.  Fill in your repository name and wait for the services to be provisioned.

---

## 💎 2. Get the Pro Advantage

The Skeleton version is a great start, but the **Pro Version** unlocks the full power of Multimodal RAG, Advanced Auth, and Enterprise-grade infrastructure.

1.  **Purchase the Pro Version:**
    Use this link to get your copy on Gumroad:
    [👉 **Buy Node.js Enterprise Pro Version**](https://aymenkani.gumroad.com/l/nodejs-enterprise-launchpad/G7E9WIA-RAILWAY?price=14.3&option=2nCmfCVPlr707OzzOD7UGA%3D%3D&_gl=1*13x7m2m*_ga*NTYyNDU1Mjc4LjE3NjA5NzUzNDg.*_ga_6LJN6D94N6*czE3NjczNTY4MDgkbzMwNSRnMSR0MTc2NzM1NjgyMCRqNDgkbDAkaDA.)

2.  **Download and Extract:** Once purchased, download the Pro `.zip` and extract it to your local machine.

---

## 🛠 3. Step-by-Step Upgrade

Now, let's link your local Pro code to your fresh Railway deployment.

### 📋 Pre-flight Check
*   **VS Code:** Open the extracted Pro folder (not the skeleton repo) in your editor.
*   **Railway Service:** Ensure your Skeleton app is fully deployed on Railway from Step 1.

### A. "Eject" the Service
Before pushing custom code, you must unlock the service from the original template metadata.

1.  Go to your **Railway Dashboard**.
2.  Select your **Node.js Service**.
3.  Navigate to **Settings** > **Source**.
4.  Click the **Eject** button.

> [!NOTE]
> Ejecting does not disconnect your repo; it simply enables custom Git pushes and removes template-specific restrictions.

### B. Update Environment Variables
The Pro version requires specific configuration. Do this **before** pushing code to prevent build failures.

1.  Open `.env.railway` in your local Pro folder.
2.  Copy the entire content.
3.  In Railway, inside the Node.js service go to the **Variables** tab.
4.  Click **Raw Editor** and paste the new variables.
5.  Click **Update Variables**.

> [!TIP]
> Replacing placeholders in the raw editor is the fastest way to sync your config.

### C. Link Config-as-Code
1.  In Railway, inside the Node.js service, go to **Settings**, scroll to the **Config-as-Code** section.
2.  Click **Add File Path**.
3.  Type: `/railway.toml`

### D. Overwrite with Pro Code
Force-push the new version to your existing repository.

#### Get your Repository URL:
1.  In Railway, inside the Node.js service, go to **Settings** > **Source**, click the link to your GitHub repo.
2.  On GitHub, click the green **Code** button and copy the **HTTPS URL**.

#### Execute the Upgrade:
Run these commands in your local Pro folder terminal:

```bash
# Initialize git and link to your existing repo
git init
git remote add origin [PASTE_YOUR_REPO_URL_HERE]

# Prepare and commit the Pro code
git add .
git commit -m "feat: upgrade to Pro Version"

# Force push to overwrite the skeleton code
git push -f origin main
```

---

## ✅ Post-Upgrade Checklist

- [ ] **Deployment:** Monitor the Railway "Deployments" tab. It should trigger automatically after the push.
- [ ] **Migrations:** Check logs to ensure `npx prisma migrate deploy` ran successfully.
- [ ] **Health Check:** Visit your Railway URL to confirm the Pro features are active.

---

## 💡 Troubleshooting

> [!WARNING]
> **Build Fails:** Ensure you didn't skip the **Config-as-Code** step. Railway needs `railway.toml` to use `Dockerfile.railway`.

> [!CAUTION]
> **Permission Denied:** Ensure you are logged into GitHub in your terminal via CLI or have SSH keys configured for the repository.

Commit message:

Revise upgrade instructions for Pro version
Updated instructions for upgrading to Pro, including changes to the db service and added a re-check step for Config-as-Code.

Upgrade_to_Pro.md, after:

# 🚀 Railway Upgrade Guide: Skeleton to Pro

This guide outlines the complete path from a zero-setup deployment to a professional enterprise platform. You will start with the free **Launchpad (Skeleton)** edition and upgrade to the **Advanced Pro Version**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Following this specific sequence ensures your database stays connected, and your first deployment succeeds without environment errors.

---

## ⚡ 1. Initial Deployment (Free Skeleton)

To get started, deploy the base architecture directly to Railway with a single click. This creates your database, Redis, and API structure.

1.  **Click the button below:**
    
    [![Deploy on Railway](https://railway.com/button.svg)](https://railway.com/deploy/nodejs-multimodal-rag-starter?referralCode=2psx_t&utm_medium=integration&utm_source=template&utm_campaign=generic)

2.  Click **"Deploy Now"** on the Railway template landing page.
3.  Fill in your repository name and wait for the services to be provisioned.

---

## 💎 2. Get the Pro Advantage

The Skeleton version is a great start, but the **Pro Version** unlocks the full power of Multimodal RAG, Advanced Auth, and Enterprise-grade infrastructure.

1.  **Purchase the Pro Version:**
    Use this link to get your copy on Gumroad:
    [👉 **Buy Node.js Enterprise Pro Version**](https://aymenkani.gumroad.com/l/nodejs-enterprise-launchpad/G7E9WIA-RAILWAY?price=14.3&option=2nCmfCVPlr707OzzOD7UGA%3D%3D&_gl=1*13x7m2m*_ga*NTYyNDU1Mjc4LjE3NjA5NzUzNDg.*_ga_6LJN6D94N6*czE3NjczNTY4MDgkbzMwNSRnMSR0MTc2NzM1NjgyMCRqNDgkbDAkaDA.)

2.  **Download and Extract:** Once purchased, download the Pro `.zip` and extract it to your local machine.

---

## 🛠 3. Step-by-Step Upgrade

Now, let's link your local Pro code to your fresh Railway deployment.

### 📋 Pre-flight Check
*   **VS Code:** Open the extracted Pro folder (not the skeleton repo) in your editor.
*   **Railway Service:** Ensure your Skeleton app is fully deployed on Railway from Step 1.


### A. Update the "db" service to use "Metal-based build environment"

Before doing anything, we need to make sure the "db" service will be available when the app service is ready to connect to it.

so all you need to do is:

1. go to the "db" service (click on "db" service block) 
2. on the "settings" tab, find the "Build" section
3. Switch on the "Use Metal Build environment"
4. Hit "deploy" for the "db" service
5. wait until the deployment completes

### B. "Eject" the Service
Before pushing custom code, you must unlock the service from the original template metadata.

1.  Go to your **Railway Dashboard**.
2.  Select your **Node.js Service**.
3.  Navigate to **Settings** > **Source**.
4.  Click the **Eject** button.

> [!NOTE]
> Ejecting does not disconnect your repo; it simply enables custom Git pushes and removes template-specific restrictions.

### C. Link Config-as-Code
1.  In Railway, inside the Node.js service, go to **Settings**, scroll to the **Config-as-Code** section.
2.  Click **Add File Path**.
3.  Type: `/railway.toml`

### D. Overwrite with Pro Code
Force-push the new version to your existing repository.

#### Get your Repository URL:
1.  In Railway, inside the Node.js service, go to **Settings** > **Source**, click the link to your GitHub repo.
2.  On GitHub, click the green **Code** button and copy the **HTTPS URL**.

#### Execute the Upgrade:
Run these commands in your local Pro folder terminal:

```bash
# Initialize git and link to your existing repo
git init
git remote add origin [PASTE_YOUR_REPO_URL_HERE]

# Prepare and commit the Pro code
git add .
git commit -m "feat: upgrade to Pro Version"

# Force push to overwrite the skeleton code
git push -f origin main
```

### E. re-check step C: Link Config-as-Code

Make sure that  /railway.toml  is selected in the Config-as-Code section.

---

## ✅ Post-Upgrade Checklist

- [ ] **Deployment:** Monitor the Railway "Deployments" tab. It should trigger automatically after the push.
- [ ] **Migrations:** Check logs to ensure `npx prisma migrate deploy` ran successfully.
- [ ] **Health Check:** Visit your Railway URL to confirm the Pro features are active.

---

## 💡 Troubleshooting

> [!WARNING]
> **Build Fails:** Ensure you didn't skip the **Config-as-Code** step. Railway needs `railway.toml` to use `Dockerfile.railway`.

> [!CAUTION]
> **Permission Denied:** Ensure you are logged into GitHub in your terminal via CLI or have SSH keys configured for the repository.
